# Colour
Colour gets attention and suggests associated meaning. to prevent confusion in meaning, colour has to be be used consistently.
To get the desired emotional response. colour has to be used appropriately. 
When a colour is used consistently its forms association. Colour can maximize readability and minimize optical fatigue. 
Colour drives symbolic meaning that support and enhance the visual experience on a design.
In UI colour is used for mainly interaction cues (arrows) and state change (<3).
Keep it consistent trough pages.
Colour implies meaning. It is mostly subjective. Other colours are specific to geography, culture and experience. Colour must be related to the audience.

 ==Colour should highlight, not determine==
 it shouldn't be the only way to separate information, it should guide and highlight.
 
## Choosing colour

Black -  authority and power - artists and musicians 
White - innocence purity cleanliness sterility, surrender and peace
Red - Alarm urgency attention intensity speed warning of danger love - Importance and priority
Pink - Romance, gratitude grace admiration harmony compassion female
Blue - peaceful tranquil sky ocean business technology innovation male - light=friendly dark=security
Green - nature organic calming refreshing relaxing - money - well balanced
Yellow - Optimism happiness warmth positivity joy hope
Purple - Royalty wealth luxury sophisticated feminine and romantic
Brown - nature earth home friendship richness geniuses solidity

==Mind the emotional Impact== 
==Mind the combination of colour==

## Tips:
 - Use light muted background colours.
 - Bright, saturated colours should only used as visual accents.
 - Start with one dim colour and only after introduce accents.
 - After you finish a design, apply a filter for colour blind people and than correct the mistakes
 - Use colours and symbols together to reinforce the design
 - Colour shouldn't be the main pillar of the design
 - Design in black and white first and than introduce colour.
 - Don't use brand colours to make an UI because Brand colours are usually too saturated (eye fatigue)
 - If it feels like the screen vibrates at the edges, this means that there is a colour that has too much saturation.
 - When making a colour palette pay attention to the saturation value (HSB in any image editing software)
 
### Use this questions to see if you are using colour correctly:
 - Are colours used ==sparingly==?
 - Do your colours ==reinforce== of interfere with hierarchy and content?
 - Is the colour scheme used ==consistently==?
 - Is colour sue ==functional==, or just decorative?
 - Does functionality depend on colour?
 - Would this jus as functional for someone who's colour blind?
 - To choose colours look the world around you


### Good UI has four colour variations:
- Shadows (darker) -> =< 40% saturation
- Mid-tones (colour variation of the shadow) -> =< 50% saturation
- Highlights (lightest colour variation of the Mid-Tone) -> =< 20% saturation
- Accents (Other Subject main colour) -> =< 60% saturation

### Method:
- Pick a photo
- Choose a subject form the photo
- From the subject extract Shadows, Mid-tone, and highlight
- As an accent use another subject of the same photo (background)
- Shadow -> Text
- Mid-Tone -> Background
- Highlight -> Call-up or boxes of text
- Accents -> Buttons

# Relation between Colour and Contrast
==If colour starts the fight, Contrast finishes it==
==Where light meets dark, there its defined contrast==

Contrast is what ensure you take the right action, contrast is that thing that your brain looks up, contrast wins over colour.
The brain is looking for contrast and shapes and these two works together.

## Contrast performs 3 essential functions:
1. Draws attention to the essential components of the interface
2. Helps to understand relationships between onscreen elements.
3. Communicates Hierarchy and signifies importance across multiple sets of visual information.

### Tips:
- Contrast allows readability
- The brain reads better when complementary colours are used
- White text on black background is readable (myth busted)
- Lack of contrast is not good for readability. (orange on yellow)
- Even when colours are complementary doesn't mean that contrast is appropriate (purple on yellow)
- Contrast should be applied in the order of Dominance
- Wherever you apply more contrast, the user will focus on that.
- Core content or action needs to have more contrast
- Secondary content and actions (everything else) should have lower contrast.

==SOMETHING CAN BE NICE TO LOOK AT, SHAPES MIGHT BE INTERESTING, COLOR COULD BE APPROPRIATE,
BUT HAVE POOR UI DESIG BECAUSE UI DESIGN IS ABOUT USABILITY NOT ART==

==Contrast always wins==

Colour and contrast depend on context
Fore some interfaces there is only one reason for each Interface, this means that needs to be one call-to-action. The context clearly indicates what and where the call-to-action is located. Depending on the context you can break some rules.
It is useful to understand if in specific contextual interface who is doing the job of attracting attention.
Contrast needs to attract attention and not Colour.

To understand who is doing the job in interface:

1. Guess the contrast and colour function in the context first.
2. Than grey out the interface to understand the contrast in the context.
3. If contrast is doing the job, the eye will be attracted to the same spots
4. If colour is doing the job of attracting attention the eye will be attracted in the wrong place
5. If contrast is doing the job the importance of the elements, the hierarchy will remain constant with or without colours.
6. See if what you guessed matches the real contrast context.




