# The right use of imagery

## Make sure it serves a purpose
first of all identify the purpose before using it
- what message it sends
- what emotions will it evoke?
- how will support of reinforce the content?
- how will it guide or instruct?
- does it strengthen and deepen understanding of interfere/distract from it?
==images values 1000 words==

## Focus on people and not things
Humans are wired to recognize and connect with other humans. Show people using something rather than "the something" and nothing else. An image of a person has more resonance. The images that works are:
- People looking at the camera with natural expression
- People that are looking away from the camera

## Cropping can change the meaning of the image
## Never go for the cheap shot
especially if it is sexist. A cheap shot is a shot that reduces the human subject to an object. Signals poor taste and easily forgotten.

## Illustrations are as much powerful as photography is.
Needs to be appropriate to the content.

# DO and DON'Ts

## DO
- show an actual person to reference a specific person
- use illustrations when specificity is not possible or do not apply
- Look for images that represent and tell realistic stories
- If you are referencing a specific product, show the product
- Use colour and composition to create meaning
- Use elements that have few elements with minimal distractions
- Strive for clear visual focus that communicates the concept
- Build a narrative, imply and interesting informative story
- Show products and people in the real world situation


## DON'Ts
- Don't use stock images or too much posed images
- Don't use objects stock photos
- Don't make the user hunt for the hidden meaning
- Obscuring the point of focus means obscuring the meaning and diminishes the power
- Don't use photos that have lack of focus 
- Don't use images without context that don't convey mood and brand
- Not use images that dissociate the product from the real world

### Websites
https://strocksnap.io -> free photos
https://material.io/guidelines/style/imagery.html -> guidelines
