# Visual Cues
Icons make excellent touch targets
- They need to be 48px to be easily activated 
- 24px icon + 24px bleed 
- 40px icon + 8px bleed
- Icons save space
- with time they get associated with somethings as such they have to convey meaning

There are 4 core types of icons:
1. Similar icons: (right turn, left turn, no smoking) are useful for simple concepts.
2. Symbolic icons: (hamburger menu, lock icon, printer icon) represent an action, object or a concept at high abstraction.
3. Example icons: (airplane, Scissor and dots, mail icon) use images of things that exemplify or are commonly associated with an action, object or concept.
4. Arbitrary Icons: (USB, Bluetooth, Male and Female) bear no resemblance to the represented concept, their meaning is learned through repeated exposure.

The icon choice is determinate by the environment they are used. There are icons for IOS, Android and Laptop software, Website icons

==Never introduce new icons==
==If you spend 15 minutes trying to choose an icon to represent something, that icon will not work in that instance==
==Labels + Icons are hard to beat, because the user is able to predict the functionality==

# Five rules for icons

## Keep the visual/perceived size consistent
icons that occupy the same pixel space on the grid aren't necessarily perceived as being the same size.
Even if they occupy the same space within the block allocated, their width and height vary.
When stroke size vary, the icons will be perceived of different sizes.

## Keep the level of detail consistent
More detailed icons will attract the user's attention first - because they appear to have more visual weight than the others.

## Eliminate unnecessary detail
Extra visual elements only make the icon more difficult to perceive, even if it's composed of recognizable objects.

## Don't mix and match styles
Don't mix outlined and fill styles on the same app or site.
Changing from outline to fill for a hover or active state is OK

## Don't reinvent the wheel
stick with the established icon used. Anything else invites confusion and becomes a cognitive obstacle.

# The three legged stool
The relationship between information creators and users is made by three components: Data, Designer, Viewer; and between these there are relationships
Relationships: 
## Designer --> Viewer => Persuasive
whatever is displayed is meant to change or reinforce an existing opinion, Bias can be unintentional. (banners, ads)

## Data --> Viewer => Informative
Neutral presentation of facts is not trying to convince, it is meant to educate, DO NOT NEED TO HAVE ANY BIAS, if it has most of the time is unintentional (google analytics).

## Designer --> Data => Visual Art
Encoding takes precedence over decoding. When it is intentional, the intended outcome is usually just enjoyment, when unintentional, can have serious negative consequences.

==Context of use should dictate visual form==

- How quickly or easily people need to understand?
- What matter most to us and to the viewer?
- Do the visuals accurately reflect the numbers? (be clever for the sake of being clever is stupid)

# Five rules for data design

## Data is only useful if can be understood
if I don't understand it, I can't act on it
if I can't act on it, it's practically worthless
Data is a tool that helps to understand and change things
Data without design is noise

## You are designing for other people
People are not you
You have to design for their identity, motivation, language
You have to design for learned social contexts colour associations, icon recognition, reading patterns etc.

## You are designing for their context of use
What amount of info does the user needs in order to act?
what motivations are coming to the table
how those motivations influence how useful or actionable the visualization is?
How much time the user spends with this information?

## The usefulness of date decreases when its volume increases
The more info in any give view, the harder it is for the viewers to find what they care most about,
or are depending in order to act
Or what need them to see
Reveal knowledge and facilitate insights - instead of overwhelming with volume.

## The more brainpower required to decode your visualization, the less that's available for understanding it
Every single shade and dimension of data the dimensions that doesn' directly contribute to your main message or to the viewer's core goal is noise

# Simplify visual information
1. Remove backgrounds
2. Remove redundant labels
3. Remove unnecessary borders and containers
4. Reduce colours and highlight the most important data
5. Remove all effects (3D shadows etc)
6. Visually separate labels/lines from data (use shades of grey for guides and labels)
7. Remove extraneous lines and labels.

# How to redesign

## Increase negative space
Increase container margins on all four sides
Increase margins after each paragraph and line-height
Increase padding inside containers, cells, fields, buttons and other enclosures.

## Remove unnecessary rules and containers
Remove unnecessary rules; use negative space and alignment to create visual groups
Remove rules from existing enclosures with background colours
Use colour instead of rules where possible
Visually separate navigation areas
Lighten any rules that must be used

## Separate labels from content (tables & forms)
Change case and/or color of navigation menu items (eg all caps/lighter)
Change case and/or color of button labels
Make field labels lighter than text inside fields
Adjust contrast between heading and content container backgrounds

## Separate primary, secondary & tertiary actions
Primary-Action is always high-contrast button, appearing to the far left
Secondary or Tertiary actions should appear to the right, as low-contrast buttons or text links
Secondary and Tertiary or Quaternary Actions should decrease gradually for items of less importance
Unrelated functions should have different visual appearance and be separated in proximity

==Simpler is better==

# Separate content from controls

- When there are too many choices is easier for people to choose nothing
- When everything is interactive nothing is interactive
- Content should be speared form control
- Separate primary + secondary actions


